README.md, before:

# Accommodation Search

## Technical Coding Test

This project has a simple setup with an api, hooked up to MongoDB and a frontend piece initiated with [vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## Install and run

From the project root:

```
npm install
```

### Run

Once install has finished, you can use the following to run both the API and UI:

```
npm run start
```

### API

To run the API separately, navigate to the `./packages/api` folder

```
$ cd packages/api
```

And run the `api` server with

```
$ npm run dev
```

The API should start at http://localhost:3001

### Client

To run the `client` server separately, navigate to the `./packages/client` folder

```
$ cd ./packages/client
```

And run the `client` with

```
$ npm run start
```

The UI should start at http://localhost:3000

### Database connection & environment variables

By default, the code is set up to start and seed a MongoDB in-memory server, which should be sufficient for the test. The database URL will be logged on startup, and the seed data can be found at ./packages/api/db/seeds.

If this setup does not work for you or if you prefer to use your own MongoDB server, you can create a .env file. In the ./packages/api folder, create a .env file (or rename the existing .env.sample) and fill in the environment variables.

## Task at hand

When the project is up and running, you should see a search-bar on the screen. This one is currently hooked up to the `/hotels` endpoint.
When you type in a partial string that is part of the name of the hotel, it should appear on the screen.
Ie. type in `resort` and you should see some Hotels where the word `resort` is present.

You will also see 2 headings called **"Countries"** and **"Cities"**.

The assignment is to build a performant way to search for Hotels, Cities or Countries.
Partial searches will be fine. Hotels will need to filterable by location as well.
Ie. The search `uni` should render

- Hotels that are located in the United States, United Kingdom or have the word `uni` in the hotel name.
- Countries that have `uni` in their name Ie. United States, United Kingdom
- No Cities as there is no match

Clicking the close button within the search field should clear out the field and results.

When clicking on one of the `Hotels`, `Cities` or `Countries` links, the application should redirect to the relevant page and render the selected `Hotel`, `City` or `Country` as a heading.

<img src="./assets/search-example.png" width="400px" />

### Write-up

<!-- Write-up/conclusion section -->

_When all the behaviour is implemented, feel free to add some observations or conclusions you like to share in the section_

### Database structure

#### Hotels Collection

```json
[
  {
    "chain_name": "Samed Resorts Group",
    "hotel_name": "Sai Kaew Beach Resort",
    "addressline1": "8/1 Moo 4 Tumbon Phe Muang",
    "addressline2": "",
    "zipcode": "21160",
    "city": "Koh Samet",
    "state": "Rayong",
    "country": "Thailand",
    "countryisocode": "TH",
    "star_rating": 4
  },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

#### Cities Collection

```json
[
  { "name": "Auckland" },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

#### Countries Collection

```json
[
  {
    "country": "Belgium",
    "countryisocode": "BE"
  },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

Commit message:

[feature] pages for City, Country, Hotel added with relevant api calls

README.md, after:

# Accommodation Search

## Technical Coding Test

This project has a simple setup with an api, hooked up to MongoDB and a frontend piece initiated with [vite](https://vitejs.dev/).

## Install and run

From the project root:

```
npm install
```

### Run

Once install has finished, you can use the following to run both the API and UI:

```
npm run start
```

### API

To run the API separately, navigate to the `./packages/api` folder

```
$ cd packages/api
```

And run the `api` server with

```
$ npm run dev
```

The API should start at http://localhost:3001

### Client

To run the `client` server separately, navigate to the `./packages/client` folder

```
$ cd ./packages/client
```

And run the `client` with

```
$ npm run start
```

The UI should start at http://localhost:3000

### Database connection & environment variables

By default, the code is set up to start and seed a MongoDB in-memory server, which should be sufficient for the test. The database URL will be logged on startup, and the seed data can be found at ./packages/api/db/seeds.

If this setup does not work for you or if you prefer to use your own MongoDB server, you can create a .env file. In the ./packages/api folder, create a .env file (or rename the existing .env.sample) and fill in the environment variables.

## Task at hand

When the project is up and running, you should see a search-bar on the screen. This one is currently hooked up to the `/hotels` endpoint.
When you type in a partial string that is part of the name of the hotel, it should appear on the screen.
Ie. type in `resort` and you should see some Hotels where the word `resort` is present.

You will also see 2 headings called **"Countries"** and **"Cities"**.

The assignment is to build a performant way to search for Hotels, Cities or Countries.
Partial searches will be fine. Hotels will need to filterable by location as well.
Ie. The search `uni` should render

- Hotels that are located in the United States, United Kingdom or have the word `uni` in the hotel name.
- Countries that have `uni` in their name Ie. United States, United Kingdom
- No Cities as there is no match

Clicking the close button within the search field should clear out the field and results.

When clicking on one of the `Hotels`, `Cities` or `Countries` links, the application should redirect to the relevant page and render the selected `Hotel`, `City` or `Country` as a heading.

<img src="./assets/search-example.png" width="400px" />

### Write-up

Areas for Improvement:

Styling: The current design is basic. Enhancing the UI with better spacing, colors, and responsive design would improve the user experience. Utilizing a CSS framework like tailwind or custom styles could help achieve a more polished look.
Component Structure: The HomePage could be separated and further broken down into sub-components (e.g., search bar, results list) to improve reusability and maintainability.
Error Handling: While basic error handling is in place, adding more user-friendly error messages and possibly retry mechanisms would make the app more robust.
Optimization: The use of debounce is a good start for performance, but further optimizations like caching results or integrating state management tools could enhance performance and scalability.

Test are missing

Unit Testing: Components such as the search bar, results list, and detail pages should be covered with unit tests using a testing library like Jest. 

Integration Testing: Tests should be written to verify that the search functionality correctly integrates with the API and that results are displayed appropriately. Tools like React Testing Library can be used to simulate user interactions.

End-to-End Testing: Implement end-to-end tests using Cypress or Selenium to verify the entire user flow, from searching to navigating to detail pages, works as intended across different environments and browsers.


### Database structure

#### Hotels Collection

```json
[
  {
    "chain_name": "Samed Resorts Group",
    "hotel_name": "Sai Kaew Beach Resort",
    "addressline1": "8/1 Moo 4 Tumbon Phe Muang",
    "addressline2": "",
    "zipcode": "21160",
    "city": "Koh Samet",
    "state": "Rayong",
    "country": "Thailand",
    "countryisocode": "TH",
    "star_rating": 4
  },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

#### Cities Collection

```json
[
  { "name": "Auckland" },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```

#### Countries Collection

```json
[
  {
    "country": "Belgium",
    "countryisocode": "BE"
  },
  {
    /* ... */
  }
]
```
